Azure is Microsoft's cloud computing platform.
Azure App Service hosts web applications and APIs without managing servers.
Azure Container Registry stores Docker images similar to Docker Hub.
Azure Kubernetes Service is a managed Kubernetes service on Azure called AKS.
Azure DevOps is a CI/CD platform with pipelines repos and boards.
Azure Blob Storage stores files images and backups similar to AWS S3.
Azure Virtual Machine is a cloud server you can SSH into.
Azure Container Instances runs Docker containers without Kubernetes.
Azure Resource Group is a logical container that holds related Azure resources.
To login to Azure CLI: az login
To list subscriptions: az account list
To set subscription: az account set --subscription <id>
To create a resource group: az group create --name mygroup --location eastus
To list resource groups: az group list
To delete a resource group: az group delete --name mygroup
To create a virtual machine: az vm create --resource-group mygroup --name myvm --image Ubuntu2204
To connect to Azure VM: ssh azureuser@<public-ip>
To start a VM: az vm start --resource-group mygroup --name myvm
To stop a VM: az vm stop --resource-group mygroup --name myvm
To create Azure Container Registry: az acr create --name myregistry --resource-group mygroup --sku Basic
To login to container registry: az acr login --name myregistry
To build and push image to ACR: az acr build --registry myregistry --image infrachat:latest .
To list images in ACR: az acr repository list --name myregistry
To create Azure App Service plan: az appservice plan create --name myplan --resource-group mygroup --sku B1 --is-linux
To deploy container to App Service: az webapp create --resource-group mygroup --plan myplan --name infrachat --deployment-container-image-name myregistry.azurecr.io/infrachat:latest
To check App Service logs: az webapp log tail --name infrachat --resource-group mygroup
To deploy AKS cluster: az aks create --resource-group mygroup --name myaks --node-count 1 --generate-ssh-keys
To get AKS credentials: az aks get-credentials --resource-group mygroup --name myaks
To connect ACR to AKS: az aks update --name myaks --resource-group mygroup --attach-acr myregistry
Azure Monitor collects logs and metrics from all Azure services.
Azure Key Vault stores secrets API keys and certificates securely.
To set a secret in Key Vault: az keyvault secret set --vault-name myvault --name mykey --value myvalue
To get a secret from Key Vault: az keyvault secret show --vault-name myvault --name mykey
Azure Active Directory manages identity and access.
Azure Load Balancer distributes traffic across multiple virtual machines.
Azure free tier gives 750 hours of B1S virtual machine per month for 12 months.
Azure CLI is installed with: curl -sL https://aka.ms/InstallAzureCLIDeb | sudo bash
To check Azure CLI version: az --version
Azure DevOps pipeline is defined in azure-pipelines.yml file.
A stage in Azure DevOps pipeline contains jobs and steps.
Azure Artifacts stores packages like npm pip and Maven.
Azure Boards manages work items sprints and backlogs.
To create Azure DevOps pipeline: go to dev.azure.com and connect GitHub repo.
Azure Container Apps runs microservices and containerised apps serverlessly.
Azure Front Door is a global load balancer and CDN for web apps.
Azure DNS manages domain names and routing.
A managed identity lets Azure services authenticate without storing credentials.

